

# Chess-tournament-software


**Description:**

This is a small program that allows you to manage a chess tournament.

**Usage Instructions:**

1. Download the project.
2. Create a virtual environment using:
   ```
   python3 -m venv env
   ```
3. Activate the virtual environment:
   ```
   source env/bin/activate
   ```
4. Install the requirements using:
   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
5. Run the program with:
   ```
   python3 main.py
   ```

## Menu Usage

1. **Create a New Tournament:**
   To create a new tournament, you need to provide the name, location, and description.
   The program will load players stored in the Data/Players/Players.json file.
   The program will generate matches and assign a random color to each player.
   It will display the list of matches and prompt you to enter the result of each match until the current round is completed.
   By default, all tournaments have 4 rounds.
   If you exit the program without finishing the tournament, when relaunching the program, it will inform you of an unfinished tournament.
   If you decide not to resume the tournament, it will be deleted.
   Due to various tie-breaking methods, the tournament does not have a single winner, but you will get a final standings table in ascending order.

3. **Show Reports:**
   The program can show reports. When you request a report, a folder called:
   ```
   Reports_Outputs/
   ```
    will be created, containing the requested report in .html format. You can open it using any web browser.

4. **Add New Player:**
   If you want to add new players to the database, you must do it in pairs. To add a player, you need the following information:
   - Name
   - Last Name
   - Date of Birth
   - Chess National ID

## Flake8-HTML Report:
You can view the Flake8 report generated by opening the following file with a web browser:
directory: 
```
flake8-report/index.html
```
You can also use the following command to create a new report:
```
flake8 --format=html --htmldir=flake-report
```

## Code Analysis:
If you want to analyze the code compliance again, you can use the following command:
```
python3 analyze_code.py
```
This will execute Flake8 in the following folders and file:
- Model
- Controller
- View
- DataBaseManager
- main.py
  
This will generate the flake8_reports folder with the reports in txt format.
```
flake8_reports/
```
